---
layout: post
title: Setting up Windows Command line
---

# Setting up Windows Command Line

The command-line uses:

 - TCC/LE (or clink) for a better `cmd.exe`
 - unixy commands from git bash.
 - ConEmu for a tabbed terminals.

## CLink

CLink is a better `cmd.exe`.  By default ConEmu will automatically attach it a
cmd.exe window, use the ConEmu setting to configure this option.

The bash-style (readline) tab completion is why I currently prefer clinku to
TCC/LE.

# ConEmu Config

Show the folder name in the tab title:
 
 - Tab bar -> Console: `%f`
	
Hide windows border:

 - Main -> Appearance -> Hide Caption always

Clean up tab bar:

 - Show search field in tab bar: Uncheck

## Terminal colors 

Now we want to customize our unixy commands, something like:

    alias ls=ls $* --color 
    alias ll=ls $* -l --color 

We can set the alises in our shell of choice or ConEmu.  Since I am not sold on
either TCC or CLink, I will use ConEmu.  In the ConEmu settings find the
*Startup -> Environment* tab and add the alises.

## Terminal Prompt

Since I never switch computers or users on windows I use this prompt:

    set PROMPT=$E[92m$P$E[90m$_$E[90m$G$E[m$S

To apply the new prompt setting:

 - Make a copy of the default `CmdInit.cmd` (put it in your home)
 - Modify the prompt setting
 - Use the new `CmdInit.cmd` for default terminals.

## Startup directory

To change the initial directory use the command in ConEmu:

    cmd.exe /k "c:\cwebber\CmdInit.cmd" -new_console:d:C:\cwebber

Or add the following to Task parameters:

    /dir "c:\cwebber"

# vim settings

These are completely personal.  Add this to the `_vimrc` file.

    set tabstop=4
    set shiftwidth=4
    set expandtab
    colors slate

# Unixy commands

You can get the familiar set of unix commands (grep, find, du) from Git Bash. 
The GnuWin32 coreutils package has nearly the same set of commands.   Since
Git is going on the machine we might as well use that.

Add the `git\bin` directory to your `%PATH%` 

# Links to applications

I like to call to add batch files to the `c:\bin` directory instead of
extending the `%PATH%`.  Probably because keeping the `%PATH%` clean is a pain
in the neck.

    $ more c:\bin\gvim.bat
    @echo off
    start /b "dummy" "C:\Program Files (x86)\Vim\vim74\gvim.exe" %*

    $ more c:\bin\npp.bat
    @echo off
    start /b "dummy" "C:\Program Files (x86)\Notepad++\notepad++.exe" %*
